#Sharedwealth-A project on crypto-currency
With the advancement in technology and an increase in the users of the Internet, online commerce has become very popular and relies on financial institutions who serve as trusted third parties to process electronic payments. While this system works well for most transactions, it still suffers from the inherent problems of trust based models. The cost and payment uncertainties can be avoided in person by using physical currency, but no mechanism exists to make payments over a communication channel without a trusted third party. <br/> <br/>
One solution is peer to peer electronic cash systems such as Bitcoin that are based on cryptographic proofs instead of trust, which allow any two parties to transact directly with each other without the need for a trusted third party.<br/>
Bitcoin is a decentralized cryptocurrency that has recently gained popularity and has emerged as a popular medium of exchange. The total market capitalization is around 1.5 billion US dollars as of October 2013 [1]. All the operations of Bitcoin are maintained in a distributed public global ledger known as a block chain. The block chain consists of all the successful transactions that have ever taken place. The security of a block chain is maintained by a chain of cryptographic puzzles solved by participants called miners, who in return are rewarded with bitcoins. To be successful, the miner has to put in his resources to solve the cryptographic puzzle (also known as a proof of work). The reward structure is an incentive for miners to contribute their computational resources and is also essential to the currency's decentralized nature.<br/><br/>
 One disadvantage of the reward structure is that the payment system is uneven. The reward is always given to one person. Hence people form mining pools where every member of the pool solves the same cryptographic puzzle and irrespective of the person who solved it, the reward is shared evenly among all the members of the pool. The Bitcoin protocol assumes that the miners are honest and they follow the Bitcoin protocol as prescribed. If group of selfish miners comes to lead by forming pools, the currency stops being decentralized and comes under the controlled of the selfish miners. Such miners can control the whole Bitcoin network [2]. Our goal is to address this problem by creating a distinct peer-to-peer protocol that reduces the incentives for the miners to join large mining pools. The central idea is to pay the “runner-ups” who come close to finding a proof, thereby creating a less volatile payout situation. 
References:
=====================================
[1] blockchain.info: Bitcoin market capitalization. http://blockchain.info/charts/market-cap, retrieved Oct. 2013<br/>
[2] Eyal, Ittay, and Emin Gün Sirer. "Majority is not enough: Bitcoin mining is vulnerable." Financial Cryptography and Data Security. Springer Berlin Heidelberg, 2014. 436-454.<br/>

By:
================================
Siddiq Ahmed Syed